(#632) Add page for setting up client certificate authentication (#634)
chocolatey/docs: input/en-us/guides/organizations/set-up-certificate-authentication.md

### Using the `--cert` Option

The `--cert` option is used to specify the path to the `.pfx` file. If the certificate is password protected, the `--certpassword` option is also required. Certificates specified on the command line apply to all sources. Below is an example of the outdated command using the `--cert` option:

```
choco outdated --source="'https://repository.example.com/api/v2/'" --cert="'C:\path\to\certificate.pfx'" --certpassword="'<CERTIFICATE PASSWORD>'"
```

### Adding a Certificate to a Configured Source

Certificates can also be added to configured sources. Just like for other commands, the `--cert` option is used to specify the path to the `.pfx` file and the the `--certpassword` option is used to specify the password, if required. When adding/updating a source and specifying a certificate, it applies to that source only.

```
choco source add --name="'Internal-Repository'" --source="'https://repository.example.com/api/v2/'" --cert="'C:\path\to\certificate.pfx'" --certpassword="'<CERTIFICATE PASSWORD>'"
```

## Repository Setup

> Most package repositories do not naively support client certificate authentication, instead requiring a reverse proxy like Nginx or Apache to do that. This may take the form of having the repository allowing anonymous access, and handling all authentication on the reverse proxy side, or the repository may support user authentication via a header after the reverse proxy validates the certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most package repositories do not natively support client certificate authentication, instead requiring a reverse proxy like Nginx or Apache to do that. This may take the form of having the repository allowing anonymous access, and handling all authentication on the reverse proxy side, or the repository may support user authentication via a header after the reverse proxy validates the certificate.
```

I assume the word intended is natively not naively.

### Generating the Certificates

In organizational contexts, where the organization already has client certificates distributed to users, the certificate of the certificate authority can be used to authenticate clients. 

In other cases, a certificate authority and client certificates will need to be generated. There is an [external blog post](https://fardog.io/blog/2017/12/30/client-side-certificate-authentication-with-nginx/) that goes into detail about how these could be generated for Nginx.

### Reverse Proxy Setup

> There are many configuration scenarios, and reverse proxies available, to give specific recommendations. For Nginx, once the reverse proxy is set up, client certificates can be enabled like this:

Reviewer: The first sentence here feels a little awkward. Perhaps something like this:

```suggestion
There are many configuration scenarios and reverse proxies available. Far too many to give specific recommendations. However, to give a general idea for using Nginx; once the reverse proxy is set up, client certificates can be enabled like this:
```

The following guides are available:

* For Apache, there is a [guide from Sonatype](https://help.sonatype.com/repomanager3/nexus-repository-administration/user-authentication/authentication-via-remote-user-token#AuthenticationviaRemoteUserToken-ConfiguringtheReverseProxy).
* For Artifactory, [JFrog has different recommendations](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/HTTP+Settings#HTTPSettings-ConfiguringaReverseProxytoSupportmTLSconfigreverseproxy).

In the case that the repository itself is configured for anonymous/public access, there are no steps required on the repository end.

### Using Sonatype Nexus

Sonatype Nexus has the capability to use the client certificate common name to authenticate a a specific user. There are set up instructions below, which are based on the [official documentation](https://help.sonatype.com/repomanager3/nexus-repository-administration/user-authentication/authentication-via-remote-user-token), but modified to be based on Nginx instead of Apache:

1. Create a user named `Choco-User` that can access the `nuget-testing` repository.
1. Enable the "Rut Auth Realm" in Settings -> Security -> Realms.

> 1. Add the "Ruth Auth" capability under Settings -> System ->  Capabilities -> Create Capability with the http header name being `X-SSO-USER`.

Reviewer: One of these is presumably wrong. I presume it's either Rut Auth, or Ruth Auth...

Author: It's Rut Auth, fixed

1. Add the [below snippet to the Nginx configuration](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55325548/getting-common-name-from-distinguished-name-of-client-certificate-in-nginx), right before the `server` block:

```
map $ssl_client_s_dn $ssl_client_s_dn_cn {
    default "";
    ~CN=(?<CN>[^,]+) $CN;
}
```
1. Add the below snippet inside the `location` block in the `server` block of the reverse proxy and then reload the Nginx config:

```
# Set header for Nexus Auth
proxy_set_header X-SSO-USER $ssl_client_s_dn_cn;
```

> 1. Add users to Nexus with the usernames the same as the Common Name (CN) of each client certificate. Assign appropriate permissions to each Nexus user, according to what the owner of the client certificate should have access to. Depending on how the client certificates are generated and the pattern of Common Names used, it may be possible to use external role mapping to automatically set this up.

Reviewer: This feels like a lot for a single step, and maybe not proper to split into multiple steps... Perhaps something like this?

```suggestion
1. Add users to Nexus.
    * The username should match the Common Name (CN) of the client certificate.
    * Assign appropriate permissions to each Nexus user, according to what the owner of the client certificate should have access to.
    * Depending on how the client certificates are generated and the pattern of Common Names used, it may be possible to use external role mapping to automatically set this up.
```

---
Order: 50
xref: set-up-certificate-authentication

> Title: Set Up A Repository With Certificate Authentication
> Description: Set Up A Repository With Certificate Authentication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Title: How To Set Up a Repository With Certificate Authentication
Description: How To Set Up a Repository With Certificate Authentication
```

---

> ## Summary

Reviewer 2: We normally end with a Summary rather than start with one. In other documentation there is usually a heading here but the closest I could find was 'Overview'.

Author: I switched it to "Overview"

Chocolatey CLI has the capability to use [Client Certificates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Client_certificate) to authenticate to http(s) based sources that require [mutual TLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security#Client-authenticated_TLS_handshake). This guide provides some information about setting it up on both the client side and the server side.

> 

Author: Done

## Chocolatey CLI Client Setup

Chocolatey CLI requires a x509 `.pfx` file that contains the client certificate with the private key. This `.pfx` file can be specified in two different ways. The first is to use the `--cert` argument when running commands, the second is to specify it as part of a saved source.

### Using the cert argument

The `--cert` argument is used to specify the path to the `.pfx` file. If the certificate is password protected, the `--certpassword` argument is required as well. Certificates specified on the command line apply to all sources. Below is an example of the outdated command using the `--cert` argument.

```
choco outdated --source="https://repository.example.com/api/v2/" --cert="C:\path\to\certificate.pfx" --certpassword="VALUE"
```

### Adding a certificate to a configured source.

> Certificates can also be added to configured sources. Just like for other commands, the `--cert` argument is used to specify the path to the `.pfx` file and the the `--certpassword` argument is used to specify the password if required. When adding/updating a source and specifying a certificate, it applies to that source only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Certificates can also be added to configured sources. Just like for other commands, the `--cert` option is used to specify the path to the `.pfx` file and the the `--certpassword` option is used to specify the password, if required. When adding/updating a source and specifying a certificate, it applies to that source only.
```

```

> choco source add --name="Internal-Repository" --source="https://repository.example.com/api/v2/" --cert="C:\path\to\certificate.pfx" --certpassword="VALUE"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
choco source add --name="'Internal-Repository'" --source="'https://repository.example.com/api/v2/'" --cert="'C:\path\to\certificate.pfx'" --certpassword="'<CER6TIFICATE PASSWORD>'"
```

```

> ## Repository setup
> 
> Most package repositories do not naively support client certificate authentication, instead requiring a reverse proxy like Nginx or Apache to do the heavy lifting. This may take the form of having the repository allowing anonymous access, and handling all authentication on the reverse proxy side, or the repository may support user authentication via a header after the reverse proxy validates the certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Repository Setup

Most package repositories do not naively support client certificate authentication, instead requiring a reverse proxy like Nginx or Apache to do that. This may take the form of having the repository allowing anonymous access, and handling all authentication on the reverse proxy side, or the repository may support user authentication via a header after the reverse proxy validates the certificate.
```

> ### Generating the certificates
> 
> In organizational contexts where the organization already has client certificates distributed to users, the certificate of the certificate authority can be used to authenticate clients. 
> 
> In other cases, a certificate authority and client certificates will need to be generated. There is a [external blog post](https://fardog.io/blog/2017/12/30/client-side-certificate-authentication-with-nginx/) that goes into detail about how these could be generated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Generating the Certificates

In organizational contexts, where the organization already has client certificates distributed to users, the certificate of the certificate authority can be used to authenticate clients. 

In other cases, a certificate authority and client certificates will need to be generated. There is an [external blog post](https://fardog.io/blog/2017/12/30/client-side-certificate-authentication-with-nginx/) that goes into detail about how these could be generated for Nginx.
```

> ### Reverse proxy setup
> 
> There are too many potential setups and reverse proxies available to give specific recommendations for the entirety of the reverse proxy setup.
> 
> For Nginx, once the reverse proxy is set up, client certificates can be enabled like this:
> 1. Copy the public key of the certificate authority to a location that Nginx can access
> 2. Add these lines to the nginx configuration under the `server` that is reverse-proxying the repository:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Reverse Proxy Setup

There are many configuration scenarios, and reverse proxies available, to give specific recommendations. For Nginx, once the reverse proxy is set up, client certificates can be enabled like this:

1. Copy the public key of the certificate authority to a location that Nginx can access.
2. Add these lines to the Nginx configuration under the `server` that is reverse-proxying the repository:
```

```
# client certificate
ssl_client_certificate /path/to/certs/ca.crt;
ssl_verify_client on;
```

> 3. Reload the nginx configuration with `nginx -S reload`
> 
> For Apache, there is a [guide from Sonatype](https://help.sonatype.com/repomanager3/nexus-repository-administration/user-authentication/authentication-via-remote-user-token#AuthenticationviaRemoteUserToken-ConfiguringtheReverseProxy)
> 
> JFrog has somewhat different recommendations for Artifactory, see [their setup instructions](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/HTTP+Settings#HTTPSettings-ConfiguringaReverseProxytoSupportmTLSconfigreverseproxy)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Reload the Nginx configuration with `nginx -S reload`.

The following guides are available:

* For Apache, there is a [guide from Sonatype](https://help.sonatype.com/repomanager3/nexus-repository-administration/user-authentication/authentication-via-remote-user-token#AuthenticationviaRemoteUserToken-ConfiguringtheReverseProxy).
* For Artifactory, [JFrog has different recommendations](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/HTTP+Settings#HTTPSettings-ConfiguringaReverseProxytoSupportmTLSconfigreverseproxy).
```

In the case that the repository itself is configured for anonymous/public access, there are no steps required on the repository end.

> ### Usage with Nexus
> 
> In the specific case of Sonatype Nexus, it has the capability to use the client certificate common name to authenticate as a specific user. There are set up instructions below, which are based on the [official documentation](https://help.sonatype.com/repomanager3/nexus-repository-administration/user-authentication/authentication-via-remote-user-token), but modified to be based on Nginx instead of Apache.
> 
> 1. Create a user named `Choco-User` that can access the `nuget-testing` repository
> 
> 1. Enable the "Rut Auth Realm" in Settings -> Security -> Realms
> 1. Add the "Ruth Auth" capability under Settings -> System ->  Capabilities -> Create Capability with the http header name being `X-SSO-USER`
> 1. Add the below snippet to the Nginx configuration, right before the `server` block. [Source](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55325548/getting-common-name-from-distinguished-name-of-client-certificate-in-nginx)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Using Sonatype Nexus

Sonatype Nexus has the capability to use the client certificate common name to authenticate a a specific user. There are set up instructions below, which are based on the [official documentation](https://help.sonatype.com/repomanager3/nexus-repository-administration/user-authentication/authentication-via-remote-user-token), but modified to be based on Nginx instead of Apache:

1. Create a user named `Choco-User` that can access the `nuget-testing` repository.
1. Enable the "Rut Auth Realm" in Settings -> Security -> Realms.
1. Add the "Ruth Auth" capability under Settings -> System ->  Capabilities -> Create Capability with the http header name being `X-SSO-USER`.
1. Add the [below snippet to the Nginx configuration](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55325548/getting-common-name-from-distinguished-name-of-client-certificate-in-nginx), right before the `server` block:
```

```
map $ssl_client_s_dn $ssl_client_s_dn_cn {
    default "";
    ~CN=(?<CN>[^,]+) $CN;
}
```

> 1. Add the below snippet inside the `location` block in the `server` block of the reverse proxy and then reload the Nginx config

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add the below snippet inside the `location` block in the `server` block of the reverse proxy and then reload the Nginx config:
```

```
# Set header for Nexus Auth
proxy_set_header X-SSO-USER $ssl_client_s_dn_cn;
```
1. Add users to Nexus with the usernames the same as the Common Name (CN) of each client certificate. Assign appropriate permissions to each Nexus user, according to what the owner of the client certificate should have access to. Depending on how the client certificates are generated and the pattern of Common Names used, it may be possible to use external role mapping to automatically set this up.

> 1. Test out the configuration, see the Client Setup section above

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Test out the configuration, see the Client Setup section above.
```
